[Music]
so everyone is always talking about
technological advancements and science
constantly speeding up with each year
but why don't we know how dinosaurs went
extinct or if there was ever life on
Mars and what about space travel
hoverboards and flying cars okay we're
not there yet
but here are some other recent
discoveries that bring us closer to a
bright future
number one evidence of the moment
dinosaurs went extinct we all kind of
know that dinosaurs met their total
endgame when a giant meteorite struck
the earth 66 million years ago but this
information was only a description of
the most probable chain of events there
are tons of other theories from climate
change to amass Dino allergy to flowers
well it's can you imagine a dinosaur
sneezing it seems like debates on this
subject are finally getting closer to
the end paleontologist Robert De Palma
found a huge slate in North Dakota
filled with all kinds of fossils it's
basically a picture set in stone of the
next moments after an impact with a
meteorite that ended the rule of
dinosaurs on earth this slate has tons
of fish fossils proving that the ocean
was devastated by this strife there's
also a mix of fossils from small mammals
that already lived on the surface as
well as the fossilized bone fragments of
a triceratops that means that dinosaurs
were alive up to that very moment number
two Mars once had huge rivers it was
already clear to scientists that Mars
used to have a so called wet period but
now a team of researchers led by dr.
Edwin kite from the University of
Chicago provides more evidence for the
theory that Mars had multiple wet
periods the last one ending some 1
billion years ago while these periods
were active Mars had rivers much wider
than those on earth and their flow was
constant for a span of over 4 billion
years
it's still unclear how that was actually
possible with Mars thin atmosphere but
new questions are exactly what brings us
closer to the truth number three new
Orca species found no other discovery
can become as much of a surprise as when
someone discovers a new species
especially when it's something as big as
a whale like how do we miss that all
these years well the ocean is pretty big
anyway we now probably have ourselves a
completely new Orca species at the
moment they're called
type D orcas they're pretty similar to
their more famous cousins but they have
some distinct features like a much more
rounded head smaller white eye patches
and an overall smaller body size for now
researchers have taken skin samples from
them and are waiting for the results of
a DNA test
if this type D Orca is a completely new
whale this discovery would be a real
sensation number four coral
transplantation to save the ocean and
here's more good news from the oceanic
world but first it's important to
understand just how crucial coral reefs
are they're the living heart of the
ocean and without them the whole marine
ecosystem wouldn't exist and even though
they seem strong like living stones
they're actually very sensitive to their
environment in the last 20 years a lot
of Earth's coral reefs have been
severely damaged and over 25 percent of
them are gone the problem is that it
would take centuries for those reefs to
grow back naturally and they just won't
do it because the conditions aren't
right luckily dr. David Vaughan found a
way to rebuild our planets coral reefs
and he pretty much made the discovery by
mistake
one day dr. Vaughn accidentally broke
one of the corals he was studying and
left the piece that fell off in a tank
of water it appeared that this piece
alone survived and began to grow much
faster since then dr. Vaughn has been
experimenting with this micro
fragmenting technique of coral growth
and achieved immense success in fact his
little patches of coral
Oh 25 times faster than corals normally
do with this advanced method it's
possible to transplant these corals to
their natural relatives and watch those
reefs live again number 5 new way to
prevent global warming if there's one
real reason to strive for scientific and
technological breakthroughs it's got to
be the question of how to stop global
warming this is the greatest threat to
life on this planet and guess what that
includes us humans from 100 billion to 1
trillion tons this is how much carbon
dioxide scientists say we need to take
away from the atmosphere by the year
2050 to prevent catastrophic climate
change
sounds scary I know but researchers from
the Royal Melbourne Institute of
Technology may have the means to do just
that cool that's music to my ears their
method is based on using hot liquid
metal and liquid electrolyte to catch
carbon dioxide from the air and turn it
into solid carbon flakes the resulting
solid carbon can not only be buried but
also used as an energy source sounds
like a win-win but this method still
needs further development let's hope
it'll be ready in time number 6 type 1
diabetes treatment in the past few years
we've already had some of the greatest
breakthroughs in cancer and HIV
treatment and the news regarding those
diseases hit the world by storm but here
comes another one that really deserves
some praise - there's a great
probability that the medical community
will find a way to deal with type 1
diabetes in the near future you see this
type has always stumped the doctors and
it was almost universally admitted to be
totally incurable but the good people
from City of Hope one of the leading
medical centers in the u.s. don't think
so the promising research program called
the Wanek family project aims to find a
cure for this disease in the next six
years they've already made huge progress
one year ago
everyone thought that type 1 diabetes is
an autoimmune disease which means that
it provokes a person's immune system to
attack otherwise healthy cells in the
pancreas
those cells produce insulin a lack of
which is basically what diabetes is the
project's director dr. Bart row up turn
that conventional idea upside down with
his study which found that those
pancreatic cells aren't being destroyed
because of an immune system malfunction
it's because of the cells themselves
you see they produce a false distress
signal and the immune system just does
its job right attacks on demand but this
discovery is just a start albeit a
really good one the scientists from the
city of Hope have all kinds of ideas in
mind as to how they can cure this
problem from cell transplantation to
growing these cells from scratch number
seven MRI in 70 seconds another great
advancement was made on the verge
between medicine and programming now if
you've ever had an MRI scan you know
that it can be terrifying once you're in
that big scary machine you're in it for
a long time in complete darkness with
strange sounds and constant reminders
that you shouldn't move at all with this
process taking sometimes over an hour
it's even tougher those with strong
nerves as for people with severe
claustrophobia in many cases they even
need anesthesia to bear an MRI scanning
but now we have 5,000 lines of code that
will save so much time and effort in
Diagnostics a team of researchers led by
Stephan scar and Tim Springer from the
Karolinska Institute in Sweden came up
with the idea of mixing MRI tests with
the technology used in much quicker
scanning called echo plain our imaging
or epi the results are close enough to
traditional MRI scans to be a good
foundation for Diagnostics recent tests
of this method showed that multiple
patients can be scanned in the same
amount of time a standard MRI machine
can do just one person I'm sure their
work will help save many lives and make
doctors jobs a lot easier and more
efficient and what discoveries interest
you the most dinosaurs space medicine
technology let me know down in the
comments and
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
to always stay on the bright side of
life